two lectures ago we built the ant list
it was a really beautiful recursive data
structure very pure and it allows us to
store any amount of information so long
as we're willing to keep adding notes at
the end and our computer doesn't run out
of memory so while they're powerful they
have the issue that they're a little
awkward to work with if you want to add
to the beginning or the end you have to
do direct pointer manipulation and so
what we showed in the previous lecture
was how to add a layer of bureaucracy
and produce the S list where now we have
a middleman that we go to to manipulate
the list so for example suppose I want
to add to the front of the list I go to
the middleman and I say hey please add
first and then maybe what she'll do is
well whatever magic stuff the S list
does we don't need to care about it as
the user of an S list we simply call the
methods of the S list class so we
enumerated a number of improvements and
now that brings us to this moment where
we're gonna improve the S list yet more
so there's some obvious limitations of
the S list like the version we have
right now you cannot add to the middle
and we could add those features but
there's actually a more fundamental
issue that I'd like to tackle and that
is the fact that adding to the back is
slow so if we think about how we add to
the end of an S list inside under the
hood what our s list does is it iterates
through all of the items and then
finally sets the next pointer now that
is gonna be slow because we have to
iterate through this list much like we
saw with the size method before so you
might think inspired by what we did with
the size method about ways that we could
improve our s list so that add last is
also fast so ponder that for a moment
maybe pause okay
so perhaps you've thought about it and
you thought how do we make size fast
well we cached the size so maybe I could
just cache the last pointer so I would
have the size a sentinel node here and
the last pointer pointing at the last
node so let's think about all the things
you might want to do with the list you
want to add to it gets
from it and remove it now we're gonna
think big we're gonna ponder if we have
a last planer it's been enough is that
enough so that all of these operations
will be fast and if not which one will
be slow so I'm not going to spoil it in
this video but I'd like you to ponder
that on your right